Java
JDBC
RESTful application
creating RESTful Application using Jakarta EE and Jersey framework
creating RESTful application with JDBC and 3 tier architecture 
Junit

JavaScript and HTML5
----------------------------
HTML: Hyper Text Mark-up Language -> used to design a static web page
JavaScript: the scripting language used in HTML to make the web page dynamic

HTML tags:
--------------------
tags wit opening tag but without closing tag -> empty or self-closing tag
these tags do not contain any other tag as children

<tag-name> <-- parent
	<inner-tag></inner-tag> <-- child/nested
	<empty-tag /> <--no child/nested tag
	<empty-tag>
</tag-name>

meta -> metadata (information)

Deployment env:
-----------------------
web application is hosted in a server machine by a web server s/w, such as Apache Tomcat, IIS (Internet Information Services), NGINX, Vercel etc.
This servers process the request and sends the response back to the client machine
these production web servers can host any number of web apps app at a time and uses a 80 generally to host the web apps, with different URL.
the web app hosted by this type of server, can be requested from any machine.


Development env:
----------------------
During development time, the web application (with its pages and scripts) can be hosted too, using a web server, known as development web server or application development server, such as Live Server, lite-server, webpack dev server etc.
these dev servers can host only one web app at a time and uses a random port number other than 80. the web app hosted by this type of server, can be requested only from the same development machine.

Styling -> CSS:
-----------------
Cascading Style-sheet is used to style the web page elements
CSS uses a property-value pair for every style
property: what you want
value: the value for the style
multiple words in a property will be separated by - (hyphen)
background-color: 'yellow'

commenting: single or multi-line -> /* */

1. in-line style: with the element itself using style attribute. not re-usable.

2. out-line style
	a. in the same HTML page using <style> tag. this tag can be written inside body or head element or simultaneously at both.
	b. in a separate CSS file and then link the file with HTML file

	i. element selector: select and mention the name of element(s) to create and apply style. if the element(s) appear multiple times on the page, all of them will be styled in the same way

	ii. id selector: mention the id(s) of html element(s) to create and apply style. mention the id with # symbol. the CSS engine will search for the elements with those id(s) on the documents and apply style on them ONLY

	Note: both element and id selector demands that you decide the elements to apply style, while creating the style set.

	iii. class selector:
	you can create just a set of styles with a name, but without mentioning any element names or ids and then when you start designing the body of the HTML, you can apply that set of style on any element using 'class' attribute. the class name starts with . (dot)
using class attribute you can apply more than one CSS class, by separating each CSS class using a single space between them. in case you are applying multiple CSS classes on the same element and if those CSS classes contain common properties, then the value for the common property of the last CSS class will take effect (cascading)

JavaScript:
-------------------
scripting language
dynamic language
loosely typed language [does not support data typification]
object-based programming language (NOT object-oriented programming language)

1. in the same HTML file using <script> tag. the script tag can be present in the body or head or simultaneously in the both
2. in separate JS file (.js) and linking the same with the HTML file using the same script tag and its 'src' attribute

global scope/method: the invisible 'main' method of the JS file. your JS code in the file is actually written inside that global method

data types of JS:
-----------------------------------
Boolean, String, Number, Object
undefined, null, NaN, Infinity

declare variables:
--------------------
'var' keyword to declare variable
the variable can hold value of different data type at different point of time
var x = 10
this is why JS is loosely-typed language

compilation of JS:
-----------------------
unlike any other programming language, JS does not have a static compilation.
JS is loaded in the browser when the HTML is loaded in the browser, thanks to the link between the JS and HTML files. then the JS engine/interpreter/compiler takes care of the JS file. It compiles (interprets) the Java code from top to bottom approach line by line and then executes it.
Hence, JS has runtime compilation. That's why if a variable is declared and assigned with some and then later the same variable is assigned with different value, JS doesn't show any compilation error. during runtime the code is evaluated and then whichever value is assigned last to that variable, is used and stored in a memory block.
That's why the language is also called dynamic language.

Object in JS:
-----------------------
an object in JS is nothing but a collection of keys and values
value could be anything even a function
data/value property/key
method/functional property/key

all members are like 'public', you can access them through reference variable
then can be accessed through
	- dot operator
	- indexer

operators in JS
-----------------------
equal and not equal
a == b, a!=b -> value of both operands are same or not

strict equal and strict not equal
a === b, a!==b -> value and data type of both operands are same or not

DOM (Document Object Model):
-----------------------------------
DOM for an HTML file is created by browser and all the DOM APIs (such as Window, Document, Console etc. types and their methods) are part of browser s/w library NOT part of JS library.

JS engine of the browser has access to DOM APIs from the browser s/w library.
Hence if you write DOM manipulation code from JS file, it will work fine, as the definitions of DOM APIs will be fetched by JS engine from the browser s/w library, whose part the JS engine itself is.

JS engines:
-----------------------
1. chrome: V8 
2. edge/opera: chromium browser
3. Safari: JS Core (indigo)
4. Firefox: Spidermonkey


JS engine is also written using C++ as the chrome browser











