oracle.jdbc.driver.OracleDriver
jdbc:oracle:thin:@localhost:1521:orcl


managing dependencies as part of the Java application
tools
	- maven -> pom.xml
	- gradel
	etc.

1. download apache maven tool (apache-maven-3.9.11-bin.zip)
2. extract the folder
3. places the extracted folder inside C:\Program Files\ folder
4. set a new env variable MAVEN_HOME and provide the value-> C:\Program Files\apache-maven-3.9.11-bin\apache-maven-3.9.11 for the path
5. select 'PATH' env variable and click on Edit button and click on the New button and add %MAVEN_HOME%\bin as the value in the PATH
6. by chance if any terminal (powershell/cmd) is open, close the same and re-open it

Database Interaction from Java application (JDBC)
-----------------------------------------------------
Java Data Base Connectivity

Drivers
	Oracle
	MySQL
	PostgreSQL
	SQL Server 

Driver interface for Oracle - OracleDriver
download and use the driver as part of the application
package (JAR) - ojdbc11
base package name: oracle.jdbc.*;

example: OracleDriver is from oracle.jdbc.driver package

JDBC APIs
package: java.sql.*;
---------------------
	DriverManager class
		- interact with Database specific driver and creates a connection instance
	Connection
	Statement 
		- uses an open connection
		- through that open connection it sends a query (parameterized or without parameter) to the connected database and gets it executed
		- the query can return result (select query - more than one value/single value) or might not return any result (insert/update/delete etc. query)
	ResultSet - represents set of records/single record


Main => UI
ProductRepository => Data Access Layer (containing data access logic => methods with code to interact with a particular database table)

DAL should not have any input/output (user interaction) code
the methods in DAL class should receive input and return data


1. create a Maven project (without any achetype)
2. in the pom.xml file, add the ojdbc dependency (copied from maven repository site)
3. create a model class(s) in a separate package (Ex: models)
4. create a repository class with necessary CRUD methods to work with a single table in a separate package (ex: repository)
5. add a *.properties file in the "resources" directory and all the required database connection information and queries in that file as key value pair
6. in the repository class constructor, load the configuration by reading the same from the properties file using either FileReader or InputStream, into a Properties class object
7. create utility private method to create a connection and return the same
8. add necessary CRUD method in the repository class 
	steps:
	1. load the jdbc driver (for oracle/mysql etc) dynamically
	2. create a connection
	3. create a statement with/without query (in case of PreparedStatement)
	4. add parameters in the statement if the query is having parameters
	5. execute the query (and pass the query in some cases, such as executeQuery method)
	6. return the data from the query execution (in case of SELECT it is ResultSet or in case of INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE etc. the int/Boolean value)
	7. before returning the data close the statement object first and then close the connection object

9. call them from UI or some other layer through the instance of Repository class


	