Class and object:
--------------------------
create table contact(
	id int primary key not null,
	name varchar2(50) not null,
	mobileno number(10),
	emailed varchar2(50),
	location varchar2(50)
)

insert into contact() values()

class Contact{
	int id;
	String name;
	long mobileNo;
	String emailId;
	String location;
}

Contact joydipContact = new Contact();
joydipContact.id=100;


class is template/blue-print which contains data (fields) and functionalities (methods) 
it represents a structure of real time entities

Contact c = new Contact(....);
when the code execution starts from main method
1. runtime will understand that a new object has to be created because "new" keyword has been used
2. then the runtime investigates the Contact class (written after new keyword) and will find out that there are some data members
3. the runtime will allocate memory blocks for those data members in the Heap memory block
4. after that the constructor (default/parameterized) will be invoked (which you have used in your code) and values (default/user values) will be placed in all the memory blocks (assigning values to the data members)
5. after that the initial address of the memory block (from where the data member memory block allocation started) will be returned  by runtime and will be stored in/assigned to the local variable (c) on the left side of the expression (=new Contact(...))

Note: the variable in the stack must be of type class as the variable will store the reference/address of the object present in the heap. That's why the variable is know as "reference type variable".

Constructor:
-----------------------
	a special method of the class used to initialize the data members with value during the creation of an instance based on a blue-print/schema (class) by runtime
	it is a supplier of values for the data members of a class which runtime invokes after allocating memory blocks in the heap memory for object data to be stored

	constructor method should not have any return type
	constructor name should be same as that of the class
	constructor is called "during" the creation of the object
	
	default constructor: initializes data members with default value (0 for numeric, false for Boolean and null for reference types, like String)
	parameterized constructor: initializes data members with the values passed to this constructor

access specifiers of the class members:
---------------------------------------------
	private: the members can ONLY be accessed within the class code body
	protected: the members can be accessed within the class code body and also within the child class code body ONLY
	public (default): the members can be accessed within the class code body, within the child class code body, through the reference variable

data abstraction:
-------------------------
	hide the data members (the memory block names in which object data will be stored) of the class by using private/protected access specifiers, so that no one from outside the class can access them directly and manipulate the data as stored in them.

encapsulation:
---------------------------
	writing the data members (fields) and the functionalities (methods) within the class body and thus hide the actual members and their implementation from outside the class
	
getter/setter:
----------------------------
	a pair of methods
	getter: returns the value of a data member (private/protected)
	setter: assigns/sets the value to a data member (private/protected)
a. if you want to assign the values to the data members after the object is created (called default constructor)
b. if you want to access a value of a data member (since constructor does not return anything)
c. if you want to update value of a data member (since constructor can't be used to update value of data members as the call to the constructor is done while creating an instance. constructor is never called after the instance is created)

inheritance:
--------------------------------
it helps you achieve reusability by avoiding redundancy while creating classes in OOP language
1. single level inheritance
2. Multi level inheritance
3. Multiple inheritance 
Note: 
a. Java does not support multiple inheritance of class
b. Every class in Java by default inherits from Object class hence the default constructor of this class is always called. If its multi level inheritance, then the top level base class inherits from Object class.

Object <- A <- B <- C

Super keyword:
----------------------------
when you create an instance of a child class, no matter whichever constructor of the child class (default/parameterized) you call, runtime always first calls the default constructor of the base class by default.
you can instruct runtime to call other (parameterized) constructor of the base class, from the constructors of the child class, using "super" keyword
super keyword indicates the immediate base/super class of the child class (current class)
this keyword can be used to invoke/access immediate base class's accessible member (such as constructor, method, getter/setter) etc. from the child class

if you want to call the base class constructor from child class constructor use 
	- super() to invoke default constructor
	- super(...) to invoke parameterized constructor

Note: call the super class constructor should be the first line in the child class constructor


if you want to call the base class other methods from child class methods use 
	- super.methodName() to base class method


A <- B <- C
for C, B is the immediate base class
for B, A is the immediate base class

class Device (extends Object)
	modelName, price, make, year

class Mobile extends Device
	 isFlip 

class Laptop extends Device
	ssdAvailable, hddAvailable



name, mobileno, email id, location


Stack memory: for [local variables + arguments (parameters)] of a method


Casting of reference types:
-------------------------------------
when you create an object/instance of a child class, you can store the reference of that child class into
	a. reference variable of child class itself
 Mobile onePlusMobile = new Mobile("One Plus Flip", "One Plus", 120000, 2022, true);

	b. reference variable of base class also
 Device onePlusMobile = new Mobile("One Plus Flip", "One Plus", 120000, 2022, true);
	Note: 
	1. this is called up-casting (storing the reference of a child class instance in a reference variable of base class)
	2. in case of up-casting, using the base class reference variable, you can access the base class members (which are inherited into the child class) as present in the child class ONLY, but can't access the explicit members of the child class

	onePlusMobile.getModelName(); <- can access this getter (inherited member of the base class present in the child class)
	onePlusMobile.getIsFlip(); <- can't access this getter (explicit member of the child class)
	3. remember, by doing up-casting you didn't create any instance of the base class (Device), you just stored the reference of the child class (Mobile) object in the reference variable of the base class (Device)

polymorphism:
-------------------------
multiple forms of method or operator

1. method

1.a. method overloading: 
methods with same name, but with a difference in parameter list, are doing different job.
you can write multiple methods with the same name inside a single class (no inheritance involved) by having the difference in the argument/parameter list
	a. number of parameters are different
	b. data type of parameters are different
	c. order or the position of the parameters are different
with respect to constructor, it is known as constructor overloading

1.b. method overriding:

	









